原文：[Middleware](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/middleware/)


本文档介绍Django自带的所有中间件组件。有关如何使用它们以及如何编写你自己的中间件的信息，请参阅[中间件使用指南](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/http/middleware/)。


## 可用中间件[¶](#available-middleware "Permalink to this headline")


### 缓存中间件[¶](#module-django.middleware.cache "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`UpdateCacheMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/cache/#UpdateCacheMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.cache.UpdateCacheMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

_class _`FetchFromCacheMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/cache/#FetchFromCacheMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.cache.FetchFromCacheMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

启用站点范围缓存。如果启用这些，只要[`CACHE_MIDDLEWARE_SECONDS`](../settings/#std:setting-CACHE_MIDDLEWARE_SECONDS)设置定义，那么每个Django驱动的页面都将被缓存。请参阅[_缓存文档_](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/cache/)。


### “通用”中间件[¶](#module-django.middleware.common "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`CommonMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/common/#CommonMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

为完美主义者添加了一些便利：

*   禁止访问[`DISALLOWED_USER_AGENTS`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/settings/#std:setting-DISALLOWED_USER_AGENTS)设置中的用户代理，它应该是一个正则表达式对象列表。

*   基于[`APPEND_SLASH`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/settings/#std:setting-APPEND_SLASH)和[`PREPEND_WWW`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/settings/#std:setting-PREPEND_WWW)设置执行URL重写。

    如果[`APPEND_SLASH`](../settings/#std:setting-APPEND_SLASH)为`True`，并且初始的URL不以斜线结尾，同时它没有在URLconf中，那么新的URL是通过在尾部添加一个斜线组成的。如果这个新的URL在URLconf中可以找到，那么Django重定向该请求到这个新的URL上。否则，初始URL像往常一样被处理。

    例如，如果对于`foo.com/bar`，你没有一个有效的URL模式，但是对于 `foo.com/bar/`，却有一个有效的URL模式，那么`foo.com/bar`将被重定向到`foo.com/bar/`。

    如果[`PREPEND_WWW`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/settings/#std:setting-PREPEND_WWW)是`True`，那么缺少前缀“www.”的URL将被重定向到同一个带有前缀“www.”的URL。

    这两个选项都是为了规范化URL。哲学是每个URL应且只存在于一个地方。技术上，URL `foo.com/bar`不同于`foo.com/bar/` - 一个搜索引擎索引器将它们视为不同的URL -所以这是规范化URL的最佳实践。

*   处理基于[`USE_ETAGS`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/settings/#std:setting-USE_ETAGS)设置的ETags。如果[`USE_ETAGS`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/settings/#std:setting-USE_ETAGS)被设为`True`，那么Django将通过MD5散列页面内容来为每个请求计算一个ETag值，并且如何合适的话，它将发送`Not Modified`响应。

`CommonMiddleware.``response_redirect_class`[¶](#django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware.response_redirect_class "Permalink to this definition")

>Django 1.8新特性

Defaults to [`HttpResponsePermanentRedirect`](../request-response/#django.http.HttpResponsePermanentRedirect "django.http.HttpResponsePermanentRedirect"). Subclass
`CommonMiddleware` and override the attribute to customize the redirects
issued by the middleware.

_class _`BrokenLinkEmailsMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/common/#BrokenLinkEmailsMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.common.BrokenLinkEmailsMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

*   Sends broken link notification emails to [`MANAGERS`](../settings/#std:setting-MANAGERS) (see
[_Error reporting_](../../howto/error-reporting/)).

### GZip中间件[¶](#module-django.middleware.gzip "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`GZipMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/gzip/#GZipMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.gzip.GZipMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

>Warning

Security researchers recently revealed that when compression techniques
(including `GZipMiddleware`) are used on a website, the site becomes
exposed to a number of possible attacks. These approaches can be used to
compromise, among other things, Django’s CSRF protection. Before using
`GZipMiddleware` on your site, you should consider very carefully whether
you are subject to these attacks. If you’re in _any_ doubt about whether
you’re affected, you should avoid using `GZipMiddleware`. For more
details, see the [the BREACH paper (PDF)](http://breachattack.com/resources/BREACH%20-%20SSL,%20gone%20in%2030%20seconds.pdf) and [breachattack.com](http://breachattack.com).


Compresses content for browsers that understand GZip compression (all modern
browsers).

This middleware should be placed before any other middleware that need to
read or write the response body so that compression happens afterward.

It will NOT compress content if any of the following are true:

*   The content body is less than 200 bytes long.
*   The response has already set the `Content-Encoding` header.
*   The request (the browser) hasn’t sent an `Accept-Encoding` header
containing `gzip`.

You can apply GZip compression to individual views using the
[`gzip_page()`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/http/decorators/#django.views.decorators.gzip.gzip_page "django.views.decorators.gzip.gzip_page") decorator.


### 有条件的GET中间件[¶](#module-django.middleware.http "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`ConditionalGetMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/http/#ConditionalGetMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.http.ConditionalGetMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

Handles conditional GET operations. If the response has a `ETag` or
`Last-Modified` header, and the request has `If-None-Match` or
`If-Modified-Since`, the response is replaced by an
[`HttpResponseNotModified`](../request-response/#django.http.HttpResponseNotModified "django.http.HttpResponseNotModified").

Also sets the `Date` and `Content-Length` response-headers.


### Locale middleware[¶](#module-django.middleware.locale "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`LocaleMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/locale/#LocaleMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

Enables language selection based on data from the request. It customizes
content for each user. See the [_internationalization documentation_](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/i18n/translation/).

`LocaleMiddleware.``response_redirect_class`[¶](#django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware.response_redirect_class "Permalink to this definition")

Defaults to [`HttpResponseRedirect`](../request-response/#django.http.HttpResponseRedirect "django.http.HttpResponseRedirect"). Subclass
`LocaleMiddleware` and override the attribute to customize the redirects
issued by the middleware.


### 消息中间件[¶](#module-django.contrib.messages.middleware "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`MessageMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/contrib/messages/middleware/#MessageMiddleware)[¶](#django.contrib.messages.middleware.MessageMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

Enables cookie- and session-based message support. See the
[_messages documentation_](../contrib/messages/).


### 安全中间件[¶](#module-django.middleware.security "Permalink to this headline")

>Warning

If your deployment situation allows, it’s usually a good idea to have your
front-end Web server perform the functionality provided by the
`SecurityMiddleware`. That way, if there are requests that aren’t served
by Django (such as static media or user-uploaded files), they will have
the same protections as requests to your Django application.

_class _`SecurityMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/security/#SecurityMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.security.SecurityMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")


The `django.middleware.security.SecurityMiddleware` provides several security
enhancements to the request/response cycle. Each one can be independently
enabled or disabled with a setting.

*   [`SECURE_BROWSER_XSS_FILTER`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_BROWSER_XSS_FILTER)
*   [`SECURE_CONTENT_TYPE_NOSNIFF`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_CONTENT_TYPE_NOSNIFF)
*   [`SECURE_HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS)
*   [`SECURE_HSTS_SECONDS`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_HSTS_SECONDS)
*   [`SECURE_REDIRECT_EXEMPT`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_REDIRECT_EXEMPT)
*   [`SECURE_SSL_HOST`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_SSL_HOST)
*   [`SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT)

#### HTTP严格传输安全[¶](#http-strict-transport-security "Permalink to this headline")

For sites that should only be accessed over HTTPS, you can instruct modern
browsers to refuse to connect to your domain name via an insecure connection
(for a given period of time) by setting the [“Strict-Transport-Security”
header](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strict_Transport_Security). This reduces your exposure to some SSL-stripping man-in-the-middle
(MITM) attacks.

`SecurityMiddleware` will set this header for you on all HTTPS responses if
you set the [`SECURE_HSTS_SECONDS`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_HSTS_SECONDS) setting to a non-zero integer value.

When enabling HSTS, it’s a good idea to first use a small value for testing,
for example, [`SECURE_HSTS_SECONDS = 3600`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_HSTS_SECONDS) for one
hour. Each time a Web browser sees the HSTS header from your site, it will
refuse to communicate non-securely (using HTTP) with your domain for the given
period of time. Once you confirm that all assets are served securely on your
site (i.e. HSTS didn’t break anything), it’s a good idea to increase this value
so that infrequent visitors will be protected (31536000 seconds, i.e. 1 year,
is common).

Additionally, if you set the [`SECURE_HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS) setting
to `True`, `SecurityMiddleware` will add the `includeSubDomains` tag to
the `Strict-Transport-Security` header. This is recommended (assuming all
subdomains are served exclusively using HTTPS), otherwise your site may still
be vulnerable via an insecure connection to a subdomain.

>Warning

The HSTS policy applies to your entire domain, not just the URL of the
response that you set the header on. Therefore, you should only use it if
your entire domain is served via HTTPS only.

Browsers properly respecting the HSTS header will refuse to allow users to
bypass warnings and connect to a site with an expired, self-signed, or
otherwise invalid SSL certificate. If you use HSTS, make sure your
certificates are in good shape and stay that way!

>Note

If you are deployed behind a load-balancer or reverse-proxy server, and the
`Strict-Transport-Security` header is not being added to your responses,
it may be because Django doesn’t realize that it’s on a secure connection;
you may need to set the [`SECURE_PROXY_SSL_HEADER`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_PROXY_SSL_HEADER) setting.


#### `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff`[¶](#x-content-type-options-nosniff "Permalink to this headline")

Some browsers will try to guess the content types of the assets that they
fetch, overriding the `Content-Type` header. While this can help display
sites with improperly configured servers, it can also pose a security
risk.

If your site serves user-uploaded files, a malicious user could upload a
specially-crafted file that would be interpreted as HTML or JavaScript by
the browser when you expected it to be something harmless.

To learn more about this header and how the browser treats it, you can
read about it on the [IE Security Blog](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/ie/archive/2008/09/02/ie8-security-part-vi-beta-2-update.aspx).

To prevent the browser from guessing the content type and force it to
always use the type provided in the `Content-Type` header, you can pass
the `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff` header.  `SecurityMiddleware` will
do this for all responses if the [`SECURE_CONTENT_TYPE_NOSNIFF`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_CONTENT_TYPE_NOSNIFF) setting
is `True`.

Note that in most deployment situations where Django isn’t involved in serving
user-uploaded files, this setting won’t help you. For example, if your
[`MEDIA_URL`](../settings/#std:setting-MEDIA_URL) is served directly by your front-end Web server (nginx,
Apache, etc.) then you’d want to set this header there. On the other hand, if
you are using Django to do something like require authorization in order to
download files and you cannot set the header using your Web server, this
setting will be useful.


#### `X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block`[¶](#x-xss-protection-1-mode-block "Permalink to this headline")

Some browsers have the ability to block content that appears to be an [XSS
attack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_scripting). They work by looking for JavaScript content in the GET or POST
parameters of a page. If the JavaScript is replayed in the server’s response,
the page is blocked from rendering and an error page is shown instead.

The [X-XSS-Protection header](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/ie/archive/2008/07/02/ie8-security-part-iv-the-xss-filter.aspx) is used to control the operation of the
XSS filter.

To enable the XSS filter in the browser, and force it to always block
suspected XSS attacks, you can pass the `X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block`
header. `SecurityMiddleware` will do this for all responses if the
[`SECURE_BROWSER_XSS_FILTER`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_BROWSER_XSS_FILTER) setting is `True`.

>Warning
>
>The browser XSS filter is a useful defense measure, but must not be
relied upon exclusively. It cannot detect all XSS attacks and not all
browsers support the header. Ensure you are still [validating and
sanitizing](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/security/#cross-site-scripting) all input to prevent XSS attacks.


#### SSL重定向[¶](#ssl-redirect "Permalink to this headline")

如果你的网站同时提供了HTTP和HTTPS连接，那么大部分用户将默认使用不安全连接。为了最好的安全性，你应该将所有的HTPP连接重定向到HTTPS。

如果你设置[`SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT)为True，那么`SecurityMiddleware`将永久(HTTP 301)重定向所有的HTPP连接到HTTPS。

>注意
>
>For performance reasons, it’s preferable to do these redirects outside of
Django, in a front-end load balancer or reverse-proxy server such as
[nginx](http://nginx.org). [`SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT) is intended for the deployment
situations where this isn’t an option.


If the [`SECURE_SSL_HOST`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_SSL_HOST) setting has a value, all redirects will be
sent to that host instead of the originally-requested host.

If there are a few pages on your site that should be available over HTTP, and
not redirected to HTTPS, you can list regular expressions to match those URLs
in the [`SECURE_REDIRECT_EXEMPT`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_REDIRECT_EXEMPT) setting.

>Note

If you are deployed behind a load-balancer or reverse-proxy server and
Django can’t seem to tell when a request actually is already secure, you
may need to set the [`SECURE_PROXY_SSL_HEADER`](../settings/#std:setting-SECURE_PROXY_SSL_HEADER) setting.


### 会话中间件[¶](#module-django.contrib.sessions.middleware "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`SessionMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/contrib/sessions/middleware/#SessionMiddleware)[¶](#django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

启用会话支持。见[_会话文档_](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/http/sessions/)。


### 站点中间件[¶](#module-django.contrib.sites.middleware "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`CurrentSiteMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/contrib/sites/middleware/#CurrentSiteMiddleware)[¶](#django.contrib.sites.middleware.CurrentSiteMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

增加表示当前站点的`site`属性到每一个到来的`HttpRequest`对象。见[站点文档](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/contrib/sites/#site-middleware)。


### 认证中间件[¶](#module-django.contrib.auth.middleware "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`AuthenticationMiddleware`[¶](#django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

Adds the `user` attribute, representing the currently-logged-in user, to
every incoming `HttpRequest` object. See [Authentication in Web requests](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/auth/default/#auth-web-requests).

_class _`RemoteUserMiddleware`[¶](#django.contrib.auth.middleware.RemoteUserMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

Middleware for utilizing Web server provided authentication. See
[_Authentication using REMOTE_USER_](../../howto/auth-remote-user/) for usage details.

_class _`PersistentRemoteUserMiddleware`[¶](#django.contrib.auth.middleware.PersistentRemoteUserMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")


Middleware for utilizing Web server provided authentication when enabled only
on the login page. See [Using REMOTE_USER on login pages only](../../howto/auth-remote-user/#persistent-remote-user-middleware-howto) for usage
details.

_class _`SessionAuthenticationMiddleware`[¶](#django.contrib.auth.middleware.SessionAuthenticationMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

Allows a user’s sessions to be invalidated when their password changes. See
[Session invalidation on password change](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/auth/default/#session-invalidation-on-password-change) for details. This middleware must
appear after [`django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware`](#django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware "django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware")
in [`MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES`](../settings/#std:setting-MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES).


### CSRF保护中间件[¶](#module-django.middleware.csrf "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`CsrfViewMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/csrf/#CsrfViewMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.csrf.CsrfViewMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

通过增加隐藏表单字段到POST表单中，并且检查正确值来增加对跨站请求伪造的保护。见[_跨站请求伪造保护文档_](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/csrf/)。


### `X-Frame-Options`中间件[¶](#module-django.middleware.clickjacking "Permalink to this headline")

_class _`XFrameOptionsMiddleware`[[source]](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/_modules/django/middleware/clickjacking/#XFrameOptionsMiddleware)[¶](#django.middleware.clickjacking.XFrameOptionsMiddleware "Permalink to this definition")

简单的[_通过X-Frame-Options通过的点击劫持保护_](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/clickjacking/)。


## 中间件顺序[¶](#middleware-ordering "Permalink to this headline")

下面是关于多种Django中间件类顺序的提示：

1.  [`SecurityMiddleware`](#django.middleware.security.SecurityMiddleware "django.middleware.security.SecurityMiddleware")

    It should go near the top of the list if you’re going to turn on the SSL
redirect as that avoids running through a bunch of other unnecessary
middleware.

2.  [`UpdateCacheMiddleware`](#django.middleware.cache.UpdateCacheMiddleware "django.middleware.cache.UpdateCacheMiddleware")

    在那些修改`Vary`头部的中间件(`SessionMiddleware`,
`GZipMiddleware`, `LocaleMiddleware`)之前。

3.  [`GZipMiddleware`](#django.middleware.gzip.GZipMiddleware "django.middleware.gzip.GZipMiddleware")

    在那些可能会修改或使用响应体的中间件之前。

    在`UpdateCacheMiddleware`之后：修改`Vary`头部。

4.  [`ConditionalGetMiddleware`](#django.middleware.http.ConditionalGetMiddleware "django.middleware.http.ConditionalGetMiddleware")

    在`CommonMiddleware`之前：当[`USE_ETAGS`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/settings/#std:setting-USE_ETAGS) = `True`时，使用它的`Etag`头部。

5.  [`SessionMiddleware`](#django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware "django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware")

    在`UpdateCacheMiddleware`之后：修改`Vary`头部。

6.  [`LocaleMiddleware`](#django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware "django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware")

    One of the topmost, after `SessionMiddleware` (uses session data) and
`UpdateCacheMiddleware` (modifies `Vary` header).

7.  [`CommonMiddleware`](#django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware "django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware")

    Before any middleware that may change the response (it calculates `ETags`).

    After `GZipMiddleware` so it won’t calculate an `ETag` header on gzipped
contents.

    Close to the top: it redirects when [`APPEND_SLASH`](../settings/#std:setting-APPEND_SLASH) or
[`PREPEND_WWW`](../settings/#std:setting-PREPEND_WWW) are set to `True`.

8.  [`CsrfViewMiddleware`](#django.middleware.csrf.CsrfViewMiddleware "django.middleware.csrf.CsrfViewMiddleware")

    Before any view middleware that assumes that CSRF attacks have been dealt
with.

9.  [`AuthenticationMiddleware`](#django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware "django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware")

    After `SessionMiddleware`: uses session storage.

10.  [`MessageMiddleware`](#django.contrib.messages.middleware.MessageMiddleware "django.contrib.messages.middleware.MessageMiddleware")

    After `SessionMiddleware`: can use session-based storage.

11.  [`FetchFromCacheMiddleware`](#django.middleware.cache.FetchFromCacheMiddleware "django.middleware.cache.FetchFromCacheMiddleware")

    After any middleware that modifies the `Vary` header: that header is used
to pick a value for the cache hash-key.

12.  [`FlatpageFallbackMiddleware`](../contrib/flatpages/#django.contrib.flatpages.middleware.FlatpageFallbackMiddleware "django.contrib.flatpages.middleware.FlatpageFallbackMiddleware")

    Should be near the bottom as it’s a last-resort type of middleware.

13.  [`RedirectFallbackMiddleware`](../contrib/redirects/#django.contrib.redirects.middleware.RedirectFallbackMiddleware "django.contrib.redirects.middleware.RedirectFallbackMiddleware")

    Should be near the bottom as it’s a last-resort type of middleware.