原文：[Design philosophies](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/misc/design-philosophies/)

---

本文介绍了Django开发人员在创建框架的过程中使用的一些基本理念。其目的是解释过去，指导未来。


## 总览[¶](#overall "Permalink to this headline")


### 松散耦合[¶](#loose-coupling "Permalink to this headline")

Django栈的一个基本目标是[松耦合及高内聚](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?CouplingAndCohesion)。
非必要情况下，该框架的各层都不应该“知道”对方的存在。

例如，模板系统对Web请求一无所知，数据库层对数据显示一无所知，而视图系统不关系程序员使用哪个模板系统。

虽然出于方便，Django自带了一个完整的栈，但是栈内各部分之间都是尽可能独立的。



### 更少的代码[¶](#less-code "Permalink to this headline")

Django apps should use as little code as possible; they should lack boilerplate.
Django should take full advantage of Python’s dynamic capabilities, such as
introspection.



### 快速开发[¶](#quick-development "Permalink to this headline")

The point of a Web framework in the 21st century is to make the tedious aspects
of Web development fast. Django should allow for incredibly quick Web
development.



### 谢绝重复 (DRY)[¶](#don-t-repeat-yourself-dry "Permalink to this headline")

Every distinct concept and/or piece of data should live in one, and only one,
place. Redundancy is bad. Normalization is good.

The framework, within reason, should deduce as much as possible from as little
as possible.

>See also

The [discussion of DRY on the Portland Pattern Repository](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?DontRepeatYourself)




### 明确优于隐式[¶](#explicit-is-better-than-implicit "Permalink to this headline")

This is a core Python principle listed in <span class="target" id="index-2">[**PEP 20**](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020), and it means Django
shouldn’t do too much “magic.” Magic shouldn’t happen unless there’s a really
good reason for it. Magic is worth using only if it creates a huge convenience
unattainable in other ways, and it isn’t implemented in a way that confuses
developers who are trying to learn how to use the feature.



### 一致性[¶](#consistency "Permalink to this headline")

The framework should be consistent at all levels. Consistency applies to
everything from low-level (the Python coding style used) to high-level (the
“experience” of using Django).




## 模型[¶](#models "Permalink to this headline")


### 明确优于隐式[¶](#id7 "Permalink to this headline")

Fields shouldn’t assume certain behaviors based solely on the name of the
field. This requires too much knowledge of the system and is prone to errors.
Instead, behaviors should be based on keyword arguments and, in some cases, on
the type of the field.



### 包括所有相关的领域逻辑[¶](#include-all-relevant-domain-logic "Permalink to this headline")

Models should encapsulate every aspect of an “object,” following Martin
Fowler’s [Active Record](http://www.martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/activeRecord.html) design pattern.

This is why both the data represented by a model and information about
it (its human-readable name, options like default ordering, etc.) are
defined in the model class; all the information needed to understand a
given model should be stored _in_ the model.




## 数据库API[¶](#database-api "Permalink to this headline")

The core goals of the database API are:


### SQL效率[¶](#sql-efficiency "Permalink to this headline")

It should execute SQL statements as few times as possible, and it should
optimize statements internally.

This is why developers need to call `save()` explicitly, rather than the
framework saving things behind the scenes silently.

This is also why the `select_related()` `QuerySet` method exists. It’s an
optional performance booster for the common case of selecting “every related
object.”



### 简洁强大的语法[¶](#terse-powerful-syntax "Permalink to this headline")

The database API should allow rich, expressive statements in as little syntax
as possible. It should not rely on importing other modules or helper objects.

Joins should be performed automatically, behind the scenes, when necessary.

Every object should be able to access every related object, systemwide. This
access should work both ways.



### 需要的时候，轻松降级使用原始SQL的选择[¶](#option-to-drop-into-raw-sql-easily-when-needed "Permalink to this headline")

The database API should realize it’s a shortcut but not necessarily an
end-all-be-all. The framework should make it easy to write custom SQL – entire
statements, or just custom `WHERE` clauses as custom parameters to API calls.




## URL设计[¶](#url-design "Permalink to this headline")


### 松散耦合[¶](#id8 "Permalink to this headline")

URLs in a Django app should not be coupled to the underlying Python code. Tying
URLs to Python function names is a Bad And Ugly Thing.

Along these lines, the Django URL system should allow URLs for the same app to
be different in different contexts. For example, one site may put stories at
`/stories/`, while another may use `/news/`.



### 无限的灵活性[¶](#infinite-flexibility "Permalink to this headline")

URLs should be as flexible as possible. Any conceivable URL design should be
allowed.



### 鼓励最佳实践[¶](#encourage-best-practices "Permalink to this headline")

The framework should make it just as easy (or even easier) for a developer to
design pretty URLs than ugly ones.

File extensions in Web-page URLs should be avoided.

Vignette-style commas in URLs deserve severe punishment.



### Definitive URLs[¶](#definitive-urls "Permalink to this headline")

Technically, `foo.com/bar` and `foo.com/bar/` are two different URLs, and
search-engine robots (and some Web traffic-analyzing tools) would treat them as
separate pages. Django should make an effort to “normalize” URLs so that
search-engine robots don’t get confused.

This is the reasoning behind the [`APPEND_SLASH`](../../ref/settings/#std:setting-APPEND_SLASH) setting.




## Template system[¶](#template-system "Permalink to this headline")


### Separate logic from presentation[¶](#separate-logic-from-presentation "Permalink to this headline")

We see a template system as a tool that controls presentation and
presentation-related logic – and that’s it. The template system shouldn’t
support functionality that goes beyond this basic goal.



### Discourage redundancy[¶](#discourage-redundancy "Permalink to this headline")

The majority of dynamic websites use some sort of common sitewide design –
a common header, footer, navigation bar, etc. The Django template system should
make it easy to store those elements in a single place, eliminating duplicate
code.

This is the philosophy behind [<span>template inheritance](../../ref/templates/language/#template-inheritance).



### Be decoupled from HTML[¶](#be-decoupled-from-html "Permalink to this headline")

The template system shouldn’t be designed so that it only outputs HTML. It
should be equally good at generating other text-based formats, or just plain
text.



### XML should not be used for template languages[¶](#xml-should-not-be-used-for-template-languages "Permalink to this headline")

Using an XML engine to parse templates introduces a whole new world of human
error in editing templates – and incurs an unacceptable level of overhead in
template processing.



### Assume designer competence[¶](#assume-designer-competence "Permalink to this headline")

The template system shouldn’t be designed so that templates necessarily are
displayed nicely in WYSIWYG editors such as Dreamweaver. That is too severe of
a limitation and wouldn’t allow the syntax to be as nice as it is. Django
expects template authors are comfortable editing HTML directly.



### Treat whitespace obviously[¶](#treat-whitespace-obviously "Permalink to this headline")

The template system shouldn’t do magic things with whitespace. If a template
includes whitespace, the system should treat the whitespace as it treats text
– just display it. Any whitespace that’s not in a template tag should be
displayed.



### Don’t invent a programming language[¶](#don-t-invent-a-programming-language "Permalink to this headline")

The goal is not to invent a programming language. The goal is to offer just
enough programming-esque functionality, such as branching and looping, that is
essential for making presentation-related decisions. The [<span>Django Template
Language (DTL)](../../topics/templates/#template-language-intro) aims to avoid advanced logic.

The Django template system recognizes that templates are most often written by
_designers_, not _programmers_, and therefore should not assume Python
knowledge.



### Safety and security[¶](#safety-and-security "Permalink to this headline")

The template system, out of the box, should forbid the inclusion of malicious
code – such as commands that delete database records.

This is another reason the template system doesn’t allow arbitrary Python code.



### Extensibility[¶](#extensibility "Permalink to this headline")

The template system should recognize that advanced template authors may want
to extend its technology.

This is the philosophy behind custom template tags and filters.




## Views[¶](#views "Permalink to this headline")


### Simplicity[¶](#simplicity "Permalink to this headline")

Writing a view should be as simple as writing a Python function. Developers
shouldn’t have to instantiate a class when a function will do.



### Use request objects[¶](#use-request-objects "Permalink to this headline")

Views should have access to a request object – an object that stores metadata
about the current request. The object should be passed directly to a view
function, rather than the view function having to access the request data from
a global variable. This makes it light, clean and easy to test views by passing
in “fake” request objects.



### Loose coupling[¶](#id10 "Permalink to this headline")

A view shouldn’t care about which template system the developer uses – or even
whether a template system is used at all.



### Differentiate between GET and POST[¶](#differentiate-between-get-and-post "Permalink to this headline")

GET and POST are distinct; developers should explicitly use one or the other.
The framework should make it easy to distinguish between GET and POST data.




## Cache Framework[¶](#cache-framework "Permalink to this headline")

The core goals of Django’s [_cache framework_](../../topics/cache/) are:


### Less code[¶](#id11 "Permalink to this headline")

A cache should be as fast as possible.  Hence, all framework code surrounding
the cache backend should be kept to the absolute minimum, especially for
`get()` operations.



### Consistency[¶](#id12 "Permalink to this headline")

The cache API should provide a consistent interface across the different
cache backends.



### Extensibility[¶](#id13 "Permalink to this headline")

The cache API should be extensible at the application level based on the
developer’s needs (for example, see [<span>Cache key transformation](../../topics/cache/#cache-key-transformation)).



